So over the last lectures, our app made good progress but still we only work with one component, the root
component and we don't really have a nice looking list, our list items are just some text nodes here
in the end.
So let's fix both,
let's actually create a new component which encapsulate a list item
and for that, I'll first of all create a new folder in our project, I'll name it source. In there,
I want to create all future source code.
You don't necessarily need to create this, you could also create all the folders
I am to create now on the top level but I believe this set up makes your structure a bit more easier
to read and makes sure that your top level of the project doesn't get too crowded.
So in source, I'll add components to add my reusable components and then there, I'll add my list item component,
in list item I'll add ListItem.js and this is pretty much the same set up
you might know from a web based react app. In there,
I will also create a functional component and not a class based one because just like in web based react
apps, you can create functional components in react native apps too.
So I'll create a new constant list item which holds an arrow function which then should render something
in the end
and there, I will now also import react from react,
we need to add this import to be able to use jsx,
so this is all like in web based react and I export list item as the default of this file.
So inside here, I now want to render a list item
and I actually want to have a list item which is not just a text node but a real view
because if we were to use this here as a list item, we would have very limited styling options because
if you try to style a text for example by giving it a border, it will just not work, the text node is
not as styleable as the view component is, that's just how it is in react native.
Therefore if you want to apply any significant styling, you need a view to which you apply the styling,
so I'll import something from react native therefore and that something will be view
and of course, a text I wrap in the view because keep in mind, if you want to output some written text,
you can never do this directly in the view,
you always need a text node for this.
So here in the list item,
notice that I use the shortcut of having just parentheses here to immediately return whatever I enter
between them, there I will output a view
and in this view, I will eventually also have a text. Now the text I want to output will be received on
the props we get.
here just like in a normal react component because it is just the normal react component and I can
then output it here,
props and then maybe place name, any property name you want,
you just have to make sure that you bind this name later.
Now to style this view, I'll also import stylesheet again,
this helper API which allowed us to create such objects we could bind to style. So I will add a new
property styles here, use stylesheet and there, the create method and then pass a javascript object
to that method where we set up our stylesheet object
and there. I want to have a, let's say a list item property which is a javascript object where we could
then style this element however we want to style it.
For example we could define that it should stretch the full available width, we could give it some padding
of maybe 10,
we could also set the background color and there, react native supports things like black or red or hex
codes,
so I'll use this light gray here with #eee and I will then assign this with the style property to my view here
by accessing styles,
so this constant here and then list item, this property in a constant.
Now to see how this looks like, we need to use our component,
so back in the app component, I will actually add it as an import here at the top, so I'll import list
item with a capital L just like in web based react apps, your custom components need to start with
capital characters.
So import list item from and then reach out to source components list item and there, the list item
file,
you can omit the file extension, the build workflow we're using here will automatically add .js
if you don't specify it.
Now we can use the list item,
so let's go down here where we render a list item and let's replace this one with our custom list item
element, let's still set a key property to i so that react doesn't complain
and now we also need to bind the place name prop,
that's the custom prop we expect to get, the one we output here in our list item.
So let's bind place name and let's just bind it to place, this element from our places array.
With that let's save all components, both app.js and ListItem.js
.
and let's go back to our application and you already see the change styling.
However you also see that despite us setting up list item to take the full width, it doesn't seem to
stretch over the entire page,
now why is that?
That is related to the wrapping container,
if we go back to our application, we see that in app.js, we render our list in this view and this
view doesn't have any special styling attached,
the default will then for it be not to take the full available width but only as much width as its child
elements need and therefore, only as much width as San Francisco needs.
So to fix this, we simply need to change the style of this view.
For that I'll add another style property to my stylesheet,
I'll name it list container and there, I'll take a width of 100%.
We could also set flex to 1 but then it will also take the full height,
certainly an option if
we want that
but here I just want to take as much height as needed and therefore only set the width.
So width 100%,
now we need to assign this to this view here,
so let's add style here,
let's set it to styles list container.
Save that file and go back
and now there, as it updates, you see now our list items take the full width. Now maybe some margin would
be nice between the list items,
so we could also go to our list item component and add a margin of 5 for example which of course will be applied
in all directions.
If you just want to have a margin to the bottom, you can of course also say margin bottom here,
so now it would look like this.
So this looks quite nice,
you can of course play around with that, add a border and so on
but what I want to do is I just want to split up my app component into more sub-components because I don't
really like how crowded this is.
It would make more sense to really take the strength of react and create more components, one for handling
the input and one for rendering the entire list, not just list item components.
Let's do these changes in the next lecture
and actually, here's the challenge for you,
do it on your own,
that is your first assignment.
Let's dive into it in the next lecture.